Please note that this cartridge shoule be clearly labelled and used exclusively
for SAVEing and LOADing Forth source code while you are editing Forth screens.
Sprites, BASIC and blocks of machine code should be SAVEd on a separate cartridge
or cartridges.  There are no commands within White Lightning to manipulate
microdrives, therefore all such commands (e.g. FORMAT, ERASE, OPEN#) are executed
from BASIC after exiting via the PROG command.


EDITING FORTH SCREENS

Forth source code is still EDITed in exactly the same way as the tape version
(using EDIT,P,S,D etc.) except that EDIT will not automatically execute a FLUSH.
This means that your EDITs will not be updated on microdrive until you type FLUSH,
so be sure to remember to do this before moving on to another screen.


THE EDIT BUFFERS

To give some idea of how White Lightning uses the microdrive for Forth source,
the following brief description may be helpful.

There exists in RAM an area of 1024 bytes called the edit buffer, which can hold
two 512 byte Forth screens.  If you issue a command which requires the use of a
screen (LIST, CLEAR or INDEX) then this screen will be read from the microdrive
into the edit buffer.  If the edit buffer already contains two screens and they
have been altered in any way since they were last loaded, then they must first be
saved (using FLUSH) back to the drive in order to allow the currently required
screen to be loaded in.

Note that before a screen is first edited it will need to be cleared using the
CLEAR command as it will probably contain garbage.  For example, before using
screen 20 for the first time, type:

        20 CLEAR 20 LIST


TRANSFERRING OLD SOURCE

If you have already written a sizeable program with the tape based White
Lightning, then you will want to transfer it to your microdrive based White
Lightning without having to completely re-type it.  To do this, use the
following:

1.  Type OLD <CR>.

2.  Type PROG <CR> and load your old source code from the tape in the normal way.
    Then re-enter Forth as normal.

3.  Transfer each screen from its old number in memory to its new number on
    the microdrive using:

    OLDSCREEN NEWSCREEN TRANS <CR>

    So, for example, to transfer the old screen 6 to microdrive screen
    25, use:

    6 25 TRANS <CR>

    If a bad sector is encountered you will get error message 8.  Skip
    over this sector and try the next one (see next section on BAD SECTORS).