Position the X and Y Pos cursors to the appropriate co-ordinates.  Input
the relevant sprite number and put the sprite to the screen by pressing the
D key and then 1.  In the case of 0 press J to DUMP the empty CHR$ square
to the sprite screen.

The landing pad, sprite 3, is also placed in these sprites.

Once the 8 by 3 sprites have been created on the screen, position the X and
Y pos cursors to the top left corner of the sprite.  Set the sprite number
to the appropriate value, set the length to 8 and the height to 3 then
press G to get the sprite.

Note that the left hand column of sprite 10 must have a 0 ink value as well
as the right hand column of sprite 11.

Once all the sprites have been created save them off to tape using the
symbol SHIFT S key.

Load in White Lightning, load in the lunar sprites.  Carefully type in the
Lunar Lander program as listed and check your program against the original.
It is now best to save your source off to tape.

Exit to BASIC using:                PROG <CR>

then save to tape using:            SAVE"LUNAR" CODE 52224,6656

Go back into White Lightning using: PRINT USR 24836

Now type     6 LOAD <CR>
             MAKE <CR>  to create the landscape
             SET  <CR>  to create the landers

To run the program type  TST <CR>

Please note that if there is an error in your source the last few screens
can no longer be listed or compiled, since the creation of extra sprites
has overwritten the end screens, thus the source would have to be reloaded
for editing purposes.


PLAYING THE GAME

The game itself is more of a simulation than a game.  The idea is to land
on all four bases without running out of fuel or crashing.  The gauges are
self explanatory.

The controls are:      CAPS SHIFT     Thrust to the left
                       BREAK SPACE    Thrust to the right
                       ENTER          Vertical thrust

Once the game is over, hit the ENTER key to escape and then TST <CR> for a
new game.

FUEL

If fuel runs out the controls will no longer function.

YVEL

A safe landing is only made if the VEL gauge registers a velocity in the
"safe" region of the centre of the gauge.