Moving Sprites

The chief problem facing the programmer who wants to move sprites around the
screen is choosing from the numerous schemes available.  We now consider some of
these methods, each with its own merits for speed, simplicity, smoothness and
storage. We'll begin with the easiest to implement and then work up to some of the
more elaborate techniques.


Screen Scrolling

Where an object is to be moved within a screen window that does not contain any
other objects the screen itself can be scrolled.  This is particularly applicable
where movement is either horizontal or vertical.  Diagonal movement is also
possible however.  In some cases the object is constrained to move on the screen
because parts of the object scrolled off the screen without wrap are lost.

To begin with let's consider a very simple example - moving an invader (demo
sprite 24) 2 characters high and 2 characters wide left and right under keyboard
control.

The routine is in three sections:  the first sets up the base and initial
parameters, the second moves left or right and the third polls the keyboard and
controls the movement.

: SETUP 0 COL ! 6 ROW ! 24 SPN ! CLS SETAM PUTBLS 2 HGT ! 32 LEN ! ;
: LEFT WRL1V ; : RIGHT WRR1V ;
: KEYS 1 1 KB IF LEFT ENDIF 8 1 KB IF RIGHT ENDIF ;

This will move the base by 1 pixel left or right but by changing the words LEFT
and RIGHT to be WRR4V and WRL4V or WRR8V and WRL8V movement of 4 or 8 pixels can
be achieved.

To try these routines we'll need a small test routine.

: TESTA ATTOFF SETUP BEGIN KEYS 8 2 KB UNTIL ;

TESTA will loop around until SYMBOL SHIFT is pressed.  Pressing CAPS SHIFT will
move the base left, pressing space will move the base right and pressing SYMBOL
SHIFT will exit the loop.

This routine can also be executed in background using:

: TESTB EXX SETUP EXX ' KEYS INT-ON ;

To halt, just type INT-OFF.

If you've typed in the source at the end of this section type 6 LOAD to compile
and then TESTA or TESTB to execute.


Simple Putting

Another fairly simple means of moving sprites around the screen is to simply PUT
sprites with a blank border around them.  Suppose the sprite you want to move is 2
characters high and 2 characters wide.  You will need to construct a 4 by 4 sprite
so that the 2 by 2 sprite can be contained with a border around the outside. Make
sure background is off by typing INT-OFF.

Suppose for example, sprite 24 is a 2 by 2 sprite (you can use demo sprite 24 for
the purposes of this example).  We'll use sprite 62 for the sprite to be moved.
To set up sprite 62 use: