# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

THRUST

If the lander still has fuel and hasn't reached terminal upward wlocity then increase upxard uelocity.

MV

A fairly -plicated v.ord wüich moves the lander vertically. The uelocity is added to the position (physicists rote that mit time has elapsed etc). If the lander goes under the t- its position is put equal to the base and Dd+7N is SET to 1. The rw and orientation are then calculated.

BANG.

Amther fairly involved wrd deich executes a¢ash if D0+7N=1. It checks to see if a safe landing was rtade and if not decides what sort of crash is required.

OK
A short xord deich sets DOWN to 0, indicating a safe landing. LAND

If the lander hat zero sideways uelocity then uertical uelacity and horizontal position are checked for a safe landirg or a crash. DOwN is set acmrdingly.
XG

Updates X-VEL PHASE and sets window for scroll.
RSEfl
Sets COL and IEN back after XG.
XVII.

Cmtrolling routine for xVEL gauge.
YG
Used to adjust Y-VEfL gau3e.
WIR
Mwe up Y-VIIL qauge. WOOY7N
Move down Y-VEL gauge. YVEL

wntrolling routine for Y-VEL gauge.
FVEL
Controlling routine for Fuel gauge.
NMG
Used to set up window for snall screen movmient.
MLEFC
Move pointer left m s-ll screen. hII2IGHT
Move pointer right on snall screen. MJN
Cmtrol routine for scroll screen. OFF
Main program loop. TST
Final executions xord. Initialises parameters and then executes min program loop.
THE G4ME PfSELF CREATION OF SPRITES
Load ip the sprite developrent package and crPate all the sprites listed in table 1.
Once the sprite developmnt package has loaded execute a mld start 6y pressing the C key and hit Y for yes and then N for the chalge buffer size pranpt.
Set the attribute avitch to 1 Iry pressing the A key and then 1.
With reference to table 1 set the sprite numb?r to the required value by pressing the S key and then inputirg the required value. Input the dimensions, (Height and Length) of the sprite by pressing the H or C keys and then inputing the appropriate values. Set the respective ink, paper, flash and bright values using the X, C, V and B keys.
Position the sprite screen X and Y pos cursors to their settings using the symhol shift 5,6,7 or 8 keys.
Using the direct data input function, key D, input the 8 bytes of data. Move the X and Y pos cursors to the next position and input the data until the sprite is c.rnplete m the screen. Set both the X and Y position cursors to 1 and then CLT the sprite into mrory by pressing the G key. Clear the sprite screen by pressing symbol shift Q and then create the ~t sprite.
CRFATION OF 1HE 64x3 CHARICIER LANDSCAPE SPRITE
This sprite will he nade up of 8 8x3 character sprites, whic.vill be joined together into one large sprite in the White Lightning proaram izself.
Set the ink to 7, the paper to 0, the flash to 0 and the bright to 1 clear the
cMR$ square by pressing the Q key. Using the sprites 4,5,6,7,8,9 and the CHRS scnuare (referred to as 0) Wild up sprites 10 to 25 as layed out in diagram 1.	•