MICRODRIVE WHITE LIGHTNING


INTRODUCTION

In order to make maximu use of the Spectrum's 48k of memory the tape based
White Lightning was located at 24832 decimal. This leaves room for a small
BASIC loader program. If, however, Interface 1 is fitted, the execution of
any of the shadow ROM commands will cause BASIC to be relocated upwards
and result in insufficient memory for the tape based loader program.

It was therefore decided, on completion of the tape based program, to
develop another version which would not only be microdrive compatible but
would also utilise the drives to compile source code. Unfortunately,
because of the way that the shadow ROM operates, the BASIC interface part
of the software is no longer practical and therefore Microdrive White
Lightning no longer has this feature.

The editing buffers have now been moved up to occupy the old screens 6, 7
and 8, and an extra 1k of dictionary space is now available. Source code
is now compiled directly from microdrives and so sprites can be stored
from 53760 onwards. Microdrive screens 1 to 19 are utilised by the system
but you can edit any of the screens 20 to 150. This means that Microdrive
White Lightning can handle six times as much source code without any
troublesome reloading from tape.


IMPLEMENTING ON MICRODRIVE

1. Insert Tape 1 in your cassette and rewind to Side A.
2. Type LOAD "" and when "MWL" has loaded it will auto-run, format your
   microdrive and save the BASIC loader and the machine code.
3. To run the microdrive version just type LOAD *"M";1;"MWL" and it will
   load and execute.


PREPARING A CARTRIDGE FOR SOURCE CODE

Before using the microdrive version it is necessary to set up a separate
cartridge for storing and loading source code. This version has been
designed to work exclusively with microdrive number 1.

To set up the cartridge, insert it in microdrive 1 and execute the
following:
	FORMAT "M";1;"name": OPEN #4;"M";1;"a"
	FOR i=1 TO 100000: PRINT #4;CHR$ 32;: NEXT i
Note the lower case "a" used in the filename.

After several minutes, the error message "MICRODRIVE FULL" will be
printed. You should now key in:
	CLOSE #4
to close the file. To check that you have a correctly prepared cartridge,
type:
	CAT 1
"a" should be printed on the screen to indicate a single file called "a"
and 0 to indicate zero bytes free.