# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

FUQ.
Decrements the arount of fuel left.
Checks to see if a diaracter boucdry is crossed (see SH8) and if so executes N9t. SL
As SR hat hecks when novemrt is left.
SH 4
Checks to see if phase is crossing a half character houndary, scrolling cen only increase fron one pixel to four pixel ~ents rn such a tnundary or scrolling will go out o= phase.

SF
Accelerates horizontal speed (deccelerates if negative) by the amount m the stack.
SS
Puts the current horizontal speed on the stack. POLL
Checks to see if there's any Fuel left (a non zero value of FU will act as a true flag) then first checks eWACE to accelerate right if not travelling ton ast then check CAPS SHIFf to accelerate left if not travelling ton ast. If a key is pressed fuel is decremented.
-p

Updates phase arid does a IOLL whrs moving right.

+p
Updates phase and does a[OLL when movirg left.

321
Moves landscape 1 pixel right and adjusts pointers.

3t4
Mwes landscape 4 pixels right and adjusts pointera prwided a half character 6oundary has 6een reached. If not, a further 1 pixel nwement must be nade.

SL4
As e4 when nrn.ing left. 9D
When speed is less than 7, keyboard is polled hut ro acrolling of the screen is «ecuted. The lander is treated as horizontally stationary.
SR8
Moves landscapes 8 pixels (1 character) right and adjusts pointers prwided a full character 6oundary has heen reached. If not a further 4 pixel scroll is executed.
SL8
As SR8 when wverent is to the left. UR
If speed is greater than 200, try and scroll right 8 pixels right, if not, try and scroll by 4 pixels right.
IR
If speed is greater than 7 then scroll 1 pixel right else m scroll. A2'
If speed is greater than 100 then do a!R if not do an IA. UL
As UL when speed is negative. IL
As IR whes apes3 is negative. IF
As RF when speed is negative. 0®C
The execution wrd strich does all the scrolling logic. 1fie wrds UR to IF are effectively the nahes of a tree strich produre ans of 7 possible scrolls from -8 pixels to +8 pixels. A detailed underatanding of the workings are rot necessary as long as you oan adapt the routine to serve your needs.
Set
reates 7 rew orientations of the landet fran the original in spzite 100, making 8 in all, each lander 6eing 1 pixel shifted -rtically fran the one tefore. 'lfiis enables single pixel resolution in the landec irovenent.
PREP
-
Used to set ip initial valves. TICK
Ircrements vertical velocity (xts like gravity) unless terminal velocity has been reached. If you went to make the gase more difficult change 1 VEL +! to 2 VH. +! and thua double the planets gravity.