                                    SECTION 3

                                      IDEAL
                                  by John Gross

IDEAL has been designed to facilitate the manipulation of sprites and screen data,
and with its 100 or so instructions, provides a powerful and comprehensive
animation sub-language.  Time should be taken to gain familiarity with the
available commands before undertaking the first big project.  Remember, that by
using the colon definitions of Forth, new words can very easily be added to the
language, built from the existing Forth and graphics words.  Mastering this
technique effectively will save a great deal of space and, in many cases,
execution time.


SPRITE

A sprite is a software controllable graphics character.  White Lightning supports
up to 255 sprites with user selectable dimensions.


SCREEN WINDOWS

A screen window is a section of the screen defined by the four variables COL, ROW,
HGT and LEN.  Columns are in the range 0 to 31, Rows are in the range 0 to 23,
Heights are in the range 1 to 24, and Lengths are in the range 1 to 32. The unit
for each is the character.  COL and ROW specify the position of the top left hand
corner of the window, with ROW 0 at the top of the screen and COL 0 on the left
hand side of the screen.  HGT and LEN define the size of the window.  To see an
example type:

5 ROW ! 6 COL ! 4 HGT ! 3 LEN ! INVV <CR>

The window has been inverted to mark it out.


SPRITE WINDOWS

A sprite window is a section of the sprite defined by the Forth variables SCOL,
SROW, HGT and LEN.  This time SCOL and SROW specify the position of the top left
hand corner of the sprite window.  HGT and LEN are again used to specify the
dimensions of the window.


SPRITE SPACE

Sprite space is the area of memory containing the previously defined sprites.  The
variable SPST holds the address of the start of sprite space, so SPST should never
be loaded with a new value unless a COLD# command is being executed, or you're
quite sure you know what you're doing!!  SPND points to the first free byte after
sprite space.  SPND should never be higher than FFF0 Hex if routines are being
executed in Background.


PIXEL DATA

For those not acquainted with the workings of the Spectrum screen display, each
character on the screen is produced as follows:  each character cell is an array
of 64 (8 by 8) pixels.  A pixel is a 'dot' which can be INK colour or PAPER
colour.  The bytes which define a particular character or block of characters are
referred to as pixel data.