# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

FUNCTION KEY SUMMARY KEY
A	Activates the ATIRISUIE witch.
'	Press 1 to act switch ON. press 0 to set witch OFF.
g Activates the HtIGHC variable. Press 1 to set 02IGHf to ON. Press 0 to set BRIGHT to OFF.
C	Activates the PAPER variable.
Frees any key between 0 and 7 to activate the colour indicated above the key.
•	Activates DIRECf DATA INPUP•
Accepts 8 bytes of data, one byte at a time, folloWOd by ENTER, via the keyboard, to the position on the sprite Screw indicated by the cursors. Inputted data must be in the range 0 to 255 Decimal or, R00 to FIFP HEX (the character R must precede Hex entry).
NOTE: If Attribute witch - 1, then the four current attributes will be used at the same position as well.
•	Activates the SCREEN FUNCPIONS. You will 6e given three options: press 1, 2 or 3.
1 INVERT
Option 1, IIiVERT, sets all O bits to 1 and all 1 bits to 0, in a window whose length is held in the "Sprite length" variable and whose height is held in the "Sprite height" variable. 1'he inversion will take place from the positioning of the sprite screen cursors, i.e. at the intersection of an imaginary line drawn from each cursor.
2 MIRROR:
Option 2 MIRROR, 'Flips' a window whose height is held in the "Sprite height" variable and whose length is held in the "sprite length" variable. The Mirroring will take place about the vertical centre of the screen window.
3 lfLVROR A1IRIBUIFS
Option 3 alfiR(lFt P4'IRI9JI'E5, 'Flips' the attributes in a window whose height is held in the 'Sprite height" variable and whose length is held in the "Sprite length" variable. The Mirroring of Attributes will take place about the vertical centre of the screen
window
F Activates FLASH WINDOW.
Flashes the current screen windav whose height is held in the
SPRITE FFICtIT variable and whose length is held in the SPRITE LENGTH variable. The Flash will take place at the position of the sprite screen cursors.
Flash is used to check the position of the sprite screen curs
.
to check that the height and length parameters are as requira ' to check that the window is correctly positioned.
83
Activates GET SPRITE function.	.-	•.. ..	. 	_	.. Gets a sprite of the dimensions held in the "Sprite height" and "Sprite length" variables, wing the number held in the 'Sprite Number: variable and at the window indicated by the sprite screen cursor - and stores it in memory.

NYIti: If the Attribute witch = 1, the sprite and attributes are stored; if the Attribute witch = 0, then any Attributes will be Ignored. When a sprite is first defined with Attribute switch = 0[he attribute data will probably be garbage.

Activates the SPRITE HEIGHT Variable.
Permits the input of the height of a sprite window from 1-15.

Activates the a7lStieUtE BLIMP function.
Places the four Attributes set in the four Attribute Variables, to the sprite screw, at the position indicated by the sprite screen cursors - with a resolution of one character.

W1ti: This function is independent of the Attribute Switch, e.g. to place Attributes at position z=4, y=4: position sprite screen cursors at r4 and y--4, then set the four attributes as required (you can then set the Attribute switch to 0 (OFF) if you like) and press I.
Activates the move (HIIiS SCji TO SPRITE SCFtEtN function.
Dumps the bit pattern set in the CF)si$ Sqt to a character square in the sprite screen, indicated by the sprite screen cursors.

Nt71E: If the Attribute Switch = 0, no Attributes will move with the pattern. If the Attribute switch = 1, then the Attributes held in the Attribute Variables will Nam with the pattern.

Activates the MOVE SPRITE SCREEN CHARACTER TO CFi{RS SCJt function.
Picks up the Character Square indicated by the Sprite Screw Cursors, into the CHRS 90t.

6D'lti: AM = 0 ignores Character Attributes. ATLR = 1 takes the Attributes of the character and loads then into the Attribute Variables.

Activates the SPRITE I--VH variable.
Permits the input of the length of a Sprite Window from 1-15.

Activates the Sprite Functions.
You will be given three options which act In the same way as the 'SCREEN FUPCTIONS E', except that these functions operate on the sprite in mamory only and have no effect directly m the screen.

Activates the No, negative response to (Y/N) questions.

Activates the Sprite logic functions.
You will he given three options. Each option GETS an area of the sprite screen, the dimensions of which are specified as those of
the defined sprite, having a top left-hand corner at the sprite screen cursor positions and logically GETS the data into the defined sprite - - whose number is in the Sprite Number Variable.
84