# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

-FIND	- pfa b tf (found)
-- ff	(not found)
Accepts the next text word (delimited by blanks) in the input stream to FRME, then searches the coNi'F7('P and then CURRENT vocabularies for a matching entry. If found, the dictionary entry's parameter field address its length byte, and a 6oolean true is left. Otherwise, only a boolean false is left.
-TRAILING	addr nl -- addr n2

Adjusts the character count nl of a text string beginning address to suppress the output of trailing blanks. i.e. the characters at addrtnl to eddr+n2 are blanks.
,	n -

Print a number from a signed 16 bit two's lament value, converted according to the numeric BASE. A trailing block follows. Pronounced "dot".
P,ID
®:	oocc
.
Compiles an in-line string occc (delimited by the trailing "), with an execution procedure to transm+t the text to the selected output device. If executed outside a definition, ." will immediately print the text until the final ". See
l.	).
.LINE	line acr -

Print on the terminal device, a line of text by its line and screen number. Trailing blanks are suppressed.
.R	al n2 -

Print the number nl right aligned in a field whose width is n2. No following blanks printed.
/	nl n2 -- 9u°t	ID Leave the signed quotient of nl,/n2.
/MOD	nl n2 - r® quot	ID
Leave the reminder and signed quotient of nl/n2. The remainder has the sign of the dividend.
0 1 2 3	- n
These small numbers are used so often, that it is attractive to define then by name In the dictionary as constants.
95
n - f	'~Tr . ''
.-e the true flag if the nuebar is less than zero (negative), otherwise leave a ~e flag.
'' - f	ID

:e a true flag if the number is equal to zero, otherwise leave a false flag. RANCH	f -	C2
- . run-time procedure to conditionally branch. If f is false (zero), the lloxdnq in-line parameter is added to the interpretive pointer to branch ahead back. Crnpiled by IF, U7TIL and MILE.


nl - n2	yl

7rerent nl by 1.


•	nl - n2 yl Leave n1 incremented by 2.


21	nlow nhigh addr -

L: bit store, nhigh is stored at addr; nlow is stored at eddr+2. 20	addr -- nlow nhigh

, tit fetch, nhigh is fetched from addr: nlow is fetched from addr-2. 7DUP	n2 nl -- n2 nl n2 nl :'plicatea the top boo values m the stack. Equivalent to OVER OvER.
P, E, ID
r3 in the form celled a colon-definition:
: axr . .
.at. a dictionary entry defining ccoc as equivalent to the following sequerr.,e Forth word definitions '	' until the next '' or ';(DpE'. The crnpiling ~cesa is done by the text interpreter as long as STATE is non-zero. Other ails ere that the (CU= vocabulary is set to the CURRENT vocabulary and that ds with the precedence bit set (P) are executed rather than being compiled.
P,C,ID

-ninate a colon-definition and stop further crnpilation. Compiles the run-time 95