e.g.  FORGET EXAMPLE will delete the word EXAMPLE (if it exists) along with any
other words defined after it.


VLIST   : This is just typed in as a single word with no parameters.  It will
          cause a list of all the words defined so far; pressing BREAK
          (CAPS SHIFT & SPACE as in BASIC) will stop the listing.


LOAD    : This will compile the source code that you have created using the
          editor into the White Lightning dictionary, to become new Lightning
          words.  Loading will terminate at the end of a screen or at the
          Forth word ;S  unless the "continue loading" word --> is used at the
          end of a screen.  The idea of the screen will became obvious in the
          next section on editing.


USING THE EDITOR

Generally speaking, most users will want to use the Spectrum editor to type and
edit the source, but a full Forth line editor is included for compatibility with
existing texts.  The maximum length of any line is 64 characters.  Any characters
after this will be ignored.

Line Editor

Included in this version of White Lightning is a line editor to enable you to
create source or text files.  To facilitate text editing, the text is organised
into blocks of 512 bytes, divided into 8 lines of 64 characters.  Once the text
has been edited, it may then be compiled into the White Lightning dictionary and
the text, if required, can be saved to tape.  The text is stored in memory in the
pages at C000 to F000, therefore, you can edit into screens 1 to 23.  If the
background facility is utilised, text is stored from CC00 onwards in screens 6 to
23, and screens 0 to 5 cannot be used.

Here is a list of the editor commands and their descriptions:


H      :  This will Hold the text pointed to by the top number on the stack of
          the current screen in a temporary area known as PAD.

e.g.  4 H will hold line 4 of the current screen in PAD.


S      :  Fill (Spread) the line number at the top of the stack with blanks, and
          shift down all subsequent lines by 1, with the last line being lost.

e.g.  6 S will fill line 6 with blanks and move all other lines down by one,
pushing the last line off the screen.


D      :  Delete the line number held on the stack.  All other lines are moved
          up by 1.  The line is held in PAD in case it is still needed.
          Line 7 cannot be deleted.


E      :  Erase the line number at the top of the stack by filling it with
          spaces.


RE     :  REplace the line number at the top of the stack with the line
          currently held in PAD.