# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

    The RELOCATE command uses the value held in MLEN as the relocation
    length, a negative value, as above, relocates downward and a
    positive value upward.
4.    Before loading the second block of sprites, the values of the new
    SPST and SPND should be calculated and noted. Type:
    SPST @ U. SPND @ 65280 60000 - + DUP SPND ! U. [CR]
    Take a note of these two values. If the previous steps have been
    carried out correctly the second number (the new SPND) should be
    the same value as the old SPND before relocation.
5.    Type PROG [CR] to exit back to BASIC then type LOAD "" CODE. The 
    array of pointers will be ignored but the sprites will be loaded.
    This assumes that this second block of sprites was also saved
    using the sprite development software.
6.    Type PRINT USR 24836 to re-enter Forth and your sprites should be
    merged. Note that if a sprite number used in the second block has
    also been used in the first block, that only the first occurrence
    will be found. If the first occurrence is destroyed using WIPE or
    DSPRITE, then the second occurrence will be found.


Extending the Forth Itself

One of the beauties of the Forth language is that it is extendible, so if
you've added a few of your own commands which you would like to become a
permanent feature of your customised version, you will need to make a
copy. 

To save the Forth use the following procedure:

1.    Type: WARM->COLD [CR] to embed the commands.
2.    Type: HERE 24832 - 1+ U. [CR] to print the length to be saved.
3.    Type: PROG [CR] to enter BASIC.
4.    Save using SAVE "FORTH" CODE 24832,length.
5.    Re-enter using PRINT USR 24836.

To use the amended version, load White Lightning as normal, exit using
PROG, load the new Forth over the old Forth and execute a COLD start using
24832.

Oasis make no undertakings to support awtoeised versions, and make no guarantee as to the success of the operation.