# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

(ABORT)

Executes after an error when WARNING is -1. This word normally executes ABORT, l but ,,,ay be altered (with care) to a user's alternative procedure. See WARNING.
i
IDOI    C

The run-time procedure compiled b( IO which moves; the loop control Parameters to the return stack. See DO.
IFINDI    addrl addr2 -' pfe b tf (ak)
addrl addr2 -- ff    (bad)
Searches the dictionary starting at the name field address addr2, matching to the
lRa good sat~f•uIffnolaatd~ ~s, found, only length byte a of    false Lsd
booiean true for
left.
ILINEI    n1 n2 -- addr count
Convert the line number nl and the screen n2 to the disc buffer address containing the data. A count of 64 indicates the full line text length.
(LOOP)    C2
The run-time procedure compiled by [OOP which increments the loop index and tests for loop completion. See LOOP.
(NUMBER) dl addrl - d2 eddr2
convert the ASCII text beginning at addrl + 1 with regard to BASE. The new value is accumulated into double number dl, being left as d2. Addr2 is the address of the first vwanvertible digit. Used by Ti21BEt•
r    ni n2 - prod
Leave the signed product of two signed nuanbers. +/    nl n2 n3 - n4    ID
Leave the ratio of n4 - nl+n2/n3 were all are signed numbers. Retention of an intermediate 31 bit product permits greater accuracy than would be available with the sequence al n2 * n3 /.
/MOD nl n2 n3 -- n4 n5 to
Leave the quotient n5 and reminder n4 of the operation n1+n1,/n3. A 31 bit intermediate product is used as for */.
+ iii n2 Leave the sum of nl+n2. 93
n addr --    ID    . .    ._ ,

' n to the value at the address. Pronounced 'plus-store". nl n2 -- n3

y the sign of n2 to nI, which is left as n3.


ur    addrl -- addr2 f
v,nce the disc buffer address addrl to the address of the next buffer addr2. -Aean f is false when addr2 is the buffer presently pointed to by variable IN.
)OP    nl -- (run)
addr n2 - (compile)    P,C2,IA

in a colon-definition in the form:
DO .    nl +[DOp
-n-time, +10pP selectively eontrols branching back to the corresponding W
.1 on n1, the loo{) index and the loop limit. Tfie signed increment nl is added '' index and the total compared to the limit. The branch back to CO occurs
1 I~ the new index is equal to or greater than the limit ( nl 50), or ,nti 1 the new ~z is equal to or less than the limit (nl<0). Upon exiting the loop, the rn?ters are discarded and the execution continues ahead.

-pile tine, +IODP compiles the run-time word (+IDOp) and the branch offset I-.lr~el from HERE to the address left on the stack by pD, n2 is used for wlpile
.lror checking.


ORIGIN    n --- addr
rve the memory address relative by n to the origin parameter erea, n is the iimlm address unit, either byte or word. This definition is used to access or lify the boot-up parameters at the origin area.
n --    [O

-.e n into the next available dictionary mamry cell, advancing the dictionary Lter. fmmn31.
nl n2 -- diff    Ip r the differerwe of n1-n2.
P, LO
iinue interpretation with the next screen. (Pronounced next--screcr.).


UP    n1    al    (if zero)
nl - nl nl (non-zero)    LO

produce nl only if it is non-zero. This is usually used to copy a value just .fore IF, to eliminate the need for an ELSE part to drop it.    •
94