# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

rpTg; xiTR = 0 leaves the attributes of the sprite as they areA17R = 1 takes the attributes from the screen and places than
into the sprite.
1 GETORS, ORS the screen data With (screen np~is~play u:ya~eceed)~d leaves the result in the sprite s2 G};pXRS, XORS the screen data with the data of a pre-defined
sprite, and leaves the result in the sprite, (screen display unaffected).
3Q,~pNDS, pNps the screen data with the data of a pre-defined sprite, and leaves the result in the sprite (screen display ",affected).

P    Put functions
    There are four options, each of which PUTs the current sprite into
    the current Sprite Screen position:
    1 = PUTBLS; a straightforward replacement
    2 = PUTORS;  ORs the sprite data with the screen data
    3 = PUTXRS; XORs the sprite data with the screen data
    4 = PUTNDS; ANDs the sprite data with the screen data

p    Activates the POT functions.    option PUTS a sprite
You will be given four options. Each oP
whose number is Specified in the variable "Sprite t3unber" onto the sprite screen, having a top left-hand corner at the sprite screen cursor positions.
NpTi;; ATIR = 0 leaves the Screen Attributes unaffected.
ATiR = 1 PUTS sprite Attributes to the sprite Screen.
I pU'PetS is a Straightforward PUP, placing data directly to the sprite screen, destroying anything that is on that part of the screen (Sprite unaffected).
2 PURJRS, ORS the sprite data with the data c0 the sprite screen' leaving the result on the screen (Sprite unaffected).
3 PVMS, mRS the sprite data with the data on the Sprite screen, leaving the result on the screen (Sprite unaffected). QPLITCS~s the sprite data with the data on the sprite screen,
leaving the result on the screen (Sprite unaffected).

Q    Clear CHR$ SQR function

O    Activates the CLEAR CHRS S{fi function. Sets all ()IRS SGR bits to zero.
SYMBOL screen Activates of all CLEAR aand attributes.
function. Clears the sprite
SHIFT S
SPRITE SCREEN H FT
O
(<_)

R    Rotate Sprite function
    Rotates a sprite in memory by 90 degrees.

R    Activates the ROTATE SPRITE function. degrees, leaving the original Rotates a sprite, in i~d~orY, by sprite unaffected. The new Rotated sprite must be given a new sprite numoer, as asked for. Attributes are autanatically Rotated with the pixel data.

S    Sprite Number variable
    Asks for a sprite number: 1-255

S    Activates the SPRITE NlA1BPR variable.
Permits the defining of sprites and asks for a sprite number in the range 1 to 255
N71E: If a sprite to be defined is given an existing sprite number, a warning is displayed, advising you of this fact. The existing sprite, or the new sPrite, are in no Way corrupted.