# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

. ENCLOSE	addrl c -
addrl nl n2 n3	-
The text scanning primitive used by WORD. From the text address addrl and an	. ASCII delimiting character c, is determined the byte offset to the first non-delimiter character nl, the offset to the first delimiter after the text n2, and the offset fp the first character not included. This procedure will not process past an ASCII 'mll', treating it as an unconditional delimiter.


END	F•C2•LL)
This is an 'alias' or duplicate definition for UNTIL. ENDCASE	addr n - (m%ile)

occurs in a oolon definition in the form: CASE
n OF  WOOF

IIIIX`ASE
At run-time ESNNUCASE marks the conclusion of a CASE statement.

At compile time NNDC'ASR computes forward branch offsets. ENDIF	addr n - (compile)	F

At run-time, HNDIF serves only as the destination of a forward branch from IF or ELSE. It marks the conclusion of the conditional structure. THEN is another nave for OaDIP. Both reams are supported in Fig-IOFCEH. See also 8 and ELSE.

At ornpiletime, HMIF ornputrs the forward branch offset from addr to HERE and stores it at addr. n is used for error tests.


ENDOF	addr n -- (compile)

Used es E7DIP but in CASE statements. ERASE	eddr n -

Clear a region of mgrory from zero to addr over n addresses. ERROR	llne - in blk

Execute error notification and restart of system. VARNING is first examined. If 1, the test of line n, relative to screen 4 and	drive 0 is printed. This line number may he positive or negative, and beyond just screen 4. If WARNING-0, n is just printed as a m?s.9age number (non disc installation). If warning is -1, the definition ABORT is executed, which executes the system ABORT. The user my cautiously modify this by altering (ABORT). Fig-FORTH saves the contents; of in, and ELK to assist in determining the location of the error. Final action is execution of QUIT.
105
CUTE	addr -
'..w-rute the definition whose code field address is m the stack. The code field .-lress is also called the ornQilatlm address. i %VECT	eddr count --	M
Lcanafer characters from the terminal to address, until a return or the count of -Mractera has been received. One or more nulls are added at the end of the

!~xt.
FENCE	- addr	U
' yser variable containing an address, below which EORGETtirg is trapped To

':get below this point, the user must alter the contents of the FENCE. FILL	addr quan b -
I 'iil mgnory at the address with the specified quantity of bytes b. FIRST	-- n
1, constant that leaves the address of the first (laest) block buffer. FLp	--- addr	U
v user variable for control of number output field width. Presently unused in Fig-IO[aH.
FORGET	E'W

`a,letes definition ~mad ccc;c from the dictionary with all entries physically following it. In Fig-RXx1N, an error message will occur 1f the CURRENT and .-Ct+1EcT vocabularies are not currently the same.

FORTH	P'LI

rhe name of the primary wcabitwry. Execution makes FLX2'141 the CONTEXT vocabulary. until additional user vocabularies are defined, new user definitions become a part of FORTH. ppRTH is immediate, so it will execute during the creation of a

mlon-definition, to select this vocabulary at ormpile tire.
HERE	-- addr
.ave the address of the next available dictionary location. HEX
'.+ttte nut'erlc conversion base to sixteen (hexadecimal).
106