4.  Now press the S key to give your character a sprite number.  For now, just
enter the number 1 and press ENTER.

5.  Press the G key to GET the character into memory as a sprite and answer Y to
the prompt - your character will flash to confirm.

Now, let's prove that your character is in memory:

1.  Press the SYMBOL SHIFT Q to clear the sprite screen.

2.  Press S to tell the computer which sprite you are calling up (there is only
one at the moment of course).  Enter 1 followed by ENTER.

3.  Now press P to PUT the sprite to the sprite screen and answer Y to the
question.

4.  Now you will be given four more options.  Don't worry about 2, 3 and 4 for now
- we just want to place our sprite on the sprite screen.  Press 1, and there it
is!

You will notice that although you correctly got your own sprite PUT back to the
sprite screen, the original character from the Arcade Library wasn't.  This
example was to show you that any actions that you call for, will only happen to
the character that the sprite screen cursors are pointing to, as we pointed out in
the Introduction.

You will also notice that the CHR$ SQR still contains your new character - have a
look to compare.


We have seen how to call up a character from the Arcade Library and how, in
essence, to build up a character in the CHR$ SQR.  There is another way to build
up a character:

1.  Press SYMBOL SHIFT Q to clear the sprite screen.

2.  Press the D key, answer Y to the question, and enter the following, very
carefully, pressing ENTER after each entry:

    a) H24 126 H9D 255 HFF 153 129 102

3.  Guess who's back! (You should have a space invader type character).

This is the DIRECT DATA INPUT.  Direct Data characters are built up from 8 bytes
of data, one byte at a time.

NOTE:  Data can only be entered using values in the range 0 to 255 Decimal or
       H00 to HFF HEX.  The character H must precede a HEX entry.


Let's do a quick review of the functions that we have used:

1.  CHR$ SQR - cursors, 5, 6, 7 and 8 keys to move and the 9 and 0 keys to set and
clear squares.  The Q key clears the CHR$ SQR.

2.  SPRITE SCREEN - 5 and 8 to move the X cursor (X is across remember) and 6 and
7 to move the Y cursor.  The SYMBOL SHIFT and Q keys clear the sprite screen.

3.  The Z key calls up the ARCADE CHARACTER LIBRARY - 1 to 167.