# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

C,IU
LIT
Within a colon-definition, LIT is automatically compiled before each 16 bit literal number encountered in input text- Later execution of LIT causes the contents of the next dictionary address to be pushed to the stack


LITERAL    n _-- (compiling)    P,C2,LO
if compiling, then compile the stack value n as a 16 bit literal. This definition
is immediate so that it will execute during a eolon-definition. The intended U5e
is:    .
pcx (calculate) LITERAL •    Compilation Compilation is suspended for the compile time calculation of a value. Crngi
is resumed and LITERAL comPiles this value.
IA
LOAD    n -
Begin interpretation of screen n. Loading will terminate at the end of the screen or at ;S. See ;S and `>•
LOOP    addr n -- (compiling)    P,C2,IA
Occurs in a wlon-definit~ip in the form:
At run-time, LOOP selectively controls branching back to the corresponding based on the loop index and limit. The loop index is incremented by one and compared to the limit. The branch back ~~roccurs sdiscardedeanddexe~ons or exceeds the limit; at that time, the parameters continues ahead.
At compile time, LOOP compiles (LOOP) and uses addr to calculate an ofcset to LO• n is used for error testing.
M•    nl n2 -- d    i A mixed magnitude math operation which leaves the double number signed product of two signed numbers.
M/    d n1 - n2 n3
A mixed magnitude math operator which leaves the signed reminder n2 and signed quotient n3, from a double number dividend and divisor nl. The reminder takes
its sign from the dividend.


M/MOD    ud1 u2 - u3 ud4
An unsigned mixed magnitude math operation which leaves a double quotient ud4 and reminder u3, from a double dividend udl and single divisor u2.
MAX    nl n2 -- max    ID Leaves the greater of boo number
MESSAGE    n -

.,int m the selected output device the text of line n relative to screen 4 of
rye 0. n nay be positive or negative. MESSAGE my be Used to Print incidental
xt such as report headers. If VEeRNING is zero, the message will simply be inted as a number (disc unavailable).


MIN    nl n2 - min    ID I xvve the scalier f ten numbers.
MINUS    rtl - n2 i,,3ve the two's complement of a number.
MOD    nl n2 - mod    If.)

ova the remainder of nl/n2, with the same sign as nl.
NEXT
This is the inner interpreter that uses the interpretive IF to execute compiled Forth definitions. It is not directly executed but is the return point for all -de procedures. It acts by fetching the address pointed by IP, and storing this vTlue in register W. It then jurps to the address pointed to by the address ;,:,inted to by W. W points to the code field of a definition which contains the ,ddress of the code which executes for that definition. This usage of indirect threaded code is a major contributor to the power, portability and extensibility
L Forth.


NFA    pfa -- nfa

c.vert the parameter field address of a definition to its name field. See PFA. NUMBER    addr - d

'rnvert a character string left at addr with a preceeding count, to a signed louble number, using the current numeric base. If a decimal point is encountered :.a the text, its position will be given in DPL, but no other effect occurs. If -reric conversion is rot possible, an error message will be given.


-FFSET,    --- addr    U

user variable which way contain a block offset to disc drives. The contents of ~'F5E'C is added to the stack number by BLOCK. Messages by MESSAGE are independent ~_ OFFSET. See E1j3cK, DRO, azl, MESSAGE.


OR    nl n2 -- or    U) I,oxve the bit-wise logical "OR" of two 16 bit values.
110