# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

FIG-FORTH GLOSSARY

This glossary contains all the word definitions in release 1 of Fig-FORTH.
The definitions are presented in the order of their ASCII sort and are
reproduced courtesy of the Forth Interest Group, PO Box 1105, San Carlos,
CA 94070.

The first line of each entry shows a symbolic description of each action
of the procedure on the parameter stack. The symbols indicate the order in
which input parameters have been placed on the stack. Three dashes "---"
indicate the execution point; any parameters left on the stack are listed.
In this notation, the top of the stack is to the right.

The symbols include:

addr    memory address
b    8-bit byte (ie. hi 8 bits zero)
c    7-bit ASCII character (hi 9 bits zero)
d    32-bit signed double integer, most significant portion with sign
    on top of stack
f    boolean flag; 0 = false, non-zero = true
ff    boolean false flag = 0
n    16-bit signed integer number
u    16-bit unsigned integer
tf    boolean true flag = non-zero

The capital letters on the right show definition characteristics:

C    May only be used within a colon definition. A digit indicates
    number of memory addresses used, if other than one.
E    Intended for execution only.
LO    Level 0 definition of FORTH-78.
LI    Level 1 definition of FORTH-78.
P    Has precedence bit set. Will execute even when compiling.
U    A user variable.

Unless otherwise noted, all references to numbers are for 16-bit signed
integers. The high byte of a number is on top of the stack, with the sign
on the leftmost bit. For 32-bit signed double numbers, the most
significant bit (with the sign) is on top.

All arithmetic is implicitly 16-bit signed integer math, with error and
underflow indication specified.

NOTE: All references to disk in this documentation can be read as
references to the disk simulation area in memory from C200H to F000H,
which are treated as a very limited disk capacity by White Lightning, and
do not in any way change the operation or description of any of the FORTH
words defined in this documentation. DO NOT use DRO, DR1 or GO.

!                n addr ---                               LO
Store 16 bits of n at address. Pronounced "store".

!CSP
Save the stack position in CSP. Used as part of the compiler security.