# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

Command    Action

PUTBLS Block move sprite window into screen i PUTORS OR sprite window into screen ' PUTXRS    )OR sprite window into screen
PUTNDS    AND sprite window into screen


Group 2


These commands allow operations between sprite windows and screen windows. Unlike Group 1 eomands, there are separate oamunds to move pixel data and attributes, and the ATipN, ATIOFF commands have on effect on tneir cperation. 1W new parameters are introduced to specify the OJLITW and ROW of the top left hand character of the sprite window. In addition, BUT and LEN are required to specify the dimensions of the window for the screen and sprite.


Parameters    use

COL    Left hand oclumn of target screen window (0 to 31)
ROW    Top row of target screen window (0 to 23)
SCpL    Left hand cobra of target sprite window 10 to sprite width -1)
SROM    'lop row of target sprite window (0 to sprite height -1)
HOT Height of window LEN Length of window SPH    Sprite number


Command    Action

OWSLB    Get block of pixel data from screen window into sprite window
OWORS    OR pixel data from screen window into sprite window
GWXRS    XOR pixel data from screen window into sprite window
OWNDS    AND pixel data from screen window into sprite window
GWA7T8    GET block of attribute data from screen window into sprite window
PWBLS    Alf block of pixel data from screen window into sprite window
PWORS    OR pixel data from sprite window into screen window
PWXRB    )Q]R pixel data fran sprite vinda+ into screen window
PWNOS    AND pixel data from sprite window into screen window
PWATTS    PUT block of attribute data from sprite window into screen window
Note:
If the command does not execute, check that the window is not partially off the screen or sprite.

Example:

To block move a window 3 characters high and 4 characters wide from row 2, column 3 of the screen to row 4, column 6 of sprite nunber 7, use the following:

7 SPN f 3[GT I 4 LEN ! 2 BOW ! 3 ODL I 4 SdOW ! 6 9201 !(YAKS

Note that sprite 7 mLnt 6e at least 8 characters wide and 7 characters high for the command to execute.
67
Group 3
This group, possibly the most useful in the whole set, comprises oanronA• which support operations between sprites and sprite windows. The same met of
as those in Group 2 are available and the format for each word is the sarr an In Group 2, except that the oamands are poatfi+oed with an •N• instead of an •t+•. The chief difference to the user lies in the set of parameters. The six* of the data window is set to have the dimensions of the first sprite, and its position in the second sprite is set using the 900L and &;Cw parameters.


P-,-~tcr    Lime

'Pi    Number of the first sprite
SP2    Number of the second sprite (containing the window)
900L    Left hand robin of target sprite window
SttOW    Top row of target sprite window


Command    Action
OWBLM    Block move pixel data from first sprite into window in second sprite
OWORM    OR pixel data from first sprite into window in second sprite
GWXRM    NOR pixel data from first sprite into window in second sprite
GWNDM    AND pixel data from first sprite into window in second sprite OWAT7M Block move attribute data Eran first sprite into window in second
sprite
PWBLM    Block move pixel data from window in second sprite into first sprite
PWORM    OR pixel data from window in second sprite into first sprite
PWXRM    NOR pixel data from window in second sprite into first sprite
PWNDM    AND pixel data from window in second sprite into first sprite PWATTM Block move attribute data from window in second sprite into first
sprite

Note:
If the width of the first sprite added to 90pL, or the height of the first sprite added 60 '3tOw exceeds either the width or height of the second sprite respectively, then the cvwd will not execute.


COPY COMMANDS
These live wmiards, are in fact a sub-group of the Group 3 c-i"s and allow operations between pairs of sprites with the same dimensions. It is necessary, therefore, to provide only two parameters instead of four.


parameter    Use

SYl    Nuniber of first sprite
SV2    Number of second sprite