# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

BUFFER SIZE

When White Lightning runs programs in background mode (see Section 3) the
top end of memory is used as a scratch pad. The size of this area depends
on the operation of the program and calculating the amount you need to
reserve is covered in Section 3. When the sprite generator program is
entered the buffer has a default size of 256 bytes. This is probably much
larger than required, but until you are familiar with the package or need
to save a few extra bytes, just leave the buffer at 256 bytes.


THE CHR$ SQR

CHR$ SQR is the abbreviation used throughout this text for character
square, and refers to the 8x8 grid to the left of the sprite screen. This
is the area used to create and edit sprites one character at a time.


THE SPRITE SCREEN

This is the area of screen 15x15 characters on which sprites are created,
developed, transformed and generally worked on.


THE CHR$ SQR CURSOR

This is the non-destructive flashing cursor which is used to design and
edit the character currently held in the CHR$ SQR.


THE SPRITE SCREEN CURSORS

These are the two flashing cursors displayed in the row beneath the sprite
screen and the column to the right of the sprite screen. They are used to
indicate the position of the top left-hand corner of the screen window
currently being operated upon. The actual cursor positions are measured
from the top left-hand corner of the sprite screen and are displayed in
real time on the screen as X POS (column) and Y POS (row). Top left is
X POS 1 Y POS 1. Bottom right is X POS F Y POS F.


SCREEN WINDOWS

The area of the screen currently being worked on is referred to as the
screen window. Its position is defined by X POS and Y POS, which
correspond to the positions of the sprite screen cursors; and its
dimensions are defined by SPRITE HEIGHT and SPRITE LENGTH. To see the
screen window you are currently working on just press F; the window will
flash.


SPRITE LIBRARY

This refers to the set of sprites you are currently working with and can
contain up to 255 sprites or use 12,500 bytes. If your sprite library
needs more than 12,500 bytes you can use the merging procedure detailed in
Section 3 to load and merge more than one sprite library into White
Lightning.