OUT                    --- addr                            U

A user variable that contains a value incremented by EMIT.  The user may alter and 
examine OUT to control display formating. 


OVER             nl n2 --- nl n2 n1                       L0

Copy the second stack value, placing it as the new top. 


PAD                    --- addr                           L0

Leave the address of the text output buffer, which is a fixed offset above HERE. 


PFA                nfa --- pfa                                                     

Convert the name field address of a compiled definition to its parameter field 
address. 


POP                                                                                

The code sequence to remove a stack value and return to NEXT.  POP is not directly 
executable, but is s Forth re-entry point after machine code. 


PREV                   --- addr                                                    

A variable containing the address of the disc buffer most recently referenced.  
The UPDATE command marks this buffer to be later written to disc. 


PUSH                                                                               

This code sequence pushes machine registers to the computation stack and returns 
to NEXT.  It is not directly executable, but is a Forth re-entry point after 
machine code. 


PUT                                                                                

This code sequence stores machine register contents over the topmost computation 
value and returns to NEXT.  It is not directly executable, but is a Forth re-entry 
point after machine code. 


QUERY                                                                              

Input 80 characters of text (or until a "return") from the operator's terminal.  
Text is positioned at the address contained in TIB with IN set to zero. 


QUIT                                                      L1

Clear the return stack, stop compilation, and return control to the operator's 
terminal.  No message is given. 


