# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

FUNCTION KEY SUMMARY

KEY

A        Activates the ATIRIBUTE switch.
         Press 1 to set switch ON.
         Press 0 to set switch OFF.

B        Activates the BRIGHT variable.
         Press 1 to set BRIGHT to ON.
         Press 0 to set BRIGHT to OFF.

C        Activates the PAPER variable.
         Press any key between 0 and 7 to activate the colour indicated 
         above the key.

D        Activates DIRECT DATA INPUT
         Accepts 8 bytes of data, one byte at a time, followed by ENTER, via
         the keyboard, to the position on the sprite Screen indicated by
         the cursors. Inputted data must be in the range 0 to 255 Decimal
         or, H00 to HFF HEX (the character H must precede Hex entry).

         NOTE:  If Attribute switch = 1, then the four current attributes will
         be used at the same position as well.

E    Screen Function
    There are three options: 1 = Invert; 2 = Mirror; 3 = Mirror Attributes

E Activates the SCREEN FUNCPIONS. You will 6e given three options: press 1, 2 or 3.
1 INVERT
Option 1, IIiVERT, sets all O bits to 1 and all 1 bits to 0, in a window whose length is held in the "Sprite length" variable and whose height is held in the "Sprite height" variable. 1'he inversion will take place from the positioning of the sprite screen cursors, i.e. at the intersection of an imaginary line drawn from each cursor.
2 MIRROR:
Option 2 MIRROR, 'Flips' a window whose height is held in the "Sprite height" variable and whose length is held in the "sprite length" variable. The Mirroring will take place about the vertical centre of the screen window.
3 lfLVROR A1IRIBUIFS
Option 3 alfiR(lFt P4'IRI9JI'E5, 'Flips' the attributes in a window whose height is held in the 'Sprite height" variable and whose length is held in the "Sprite length" variable. The Mirroring of Attributes will take place about the vertical centre of the screen
window

F    Flash Window
    Flashes the current Sprite Screen window position.

F Activates FLASH WINDOW.
Flashes the current screen windav whose height is held in the
SPRITE FFICtIT variable and whose length is held in the SPRITE LENGTH variable. The Flash will take place at the position of the sprite screen cursors.
Flash is used to check the position of the sprite screen curs
.to check that the height and length parameters are as requira ' to check that the window is correctly positioned.
