# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

SPRITE/SPRITE OPERATIONS
These are operations between sprites which usually have the same
dimensions, or, as in the case of the SPIN command, transposed dimensions.
SP1 and SP2 hold the sprite numbers. Commands in this group are postfixed
with a "M"; eg. COPORM, SPINM.

DUMMY SPRITE
A dummy sprite is a sprite which does not contain data for display. It may
be used, for instance, to store a machine code subroutine, an array, or
maybe a collision detection sprite.


IDEAL VARIABLES

The IDEAL sub-language uses 27 variables in all; these are:

VARIABLE    USE

ROW    Holds the row (Y co-ord) in characters, measured from the
    top of the screen (0-23).
LEN    Holds the width of the current screen window (1-32), or the 
    width of the sprite being defined (1-255). Units are characters.
COL    Holds the column (X co-ord) in characters, measured from the
    left of the screen (0-31).
HGT    Holds the height of the current screen window (1-24), or the 
    height of the sprite being defined (1-255). Units are characters.
SROW    Holds the row (Y co-ord) within the sprite whose number is
    held in SP2, measured from the top (0-(HGT-1)). Units are 
    characters.
SCOL    Holds the column (X co-ord) within the sprite whose number is
    held in SP2, measured from the left (0-(LEN-1)). Units are 
    characters.
NPX    Holds the size and direction of the vertical scrolls. Positive
    scrolls are upward and negative downward. Units are pixels and
    not characters.
SPN    Used to hold the sprite number for those words which operate on
    only one sprite (1-255).
SP1    Where operations involve a sprite and a sprite window, SP1 holds
    the number of the sprite which does not contain the window
    (1-255). Where a sprite is to be spun into a second sprite, SP1
    holds the number of the first sprite (1-255).
SP2    Where operations involve a sprite and a sprite window, SP2 holds
    the number of the sprite which does contain the window
    (1-255). Where a sprite is to be spun into a second sprite, SP2
    holds the number of the second sprite (1-255).