                                    SECTION 2

                                  SPECTRA FORTH
                                 by Stuart Smith


Forth is an extraordinary computer language developed originally for the control
of radio telescopes, by an American named Charles Moore.

Forth is neither an interpreter nor a compiler, but combines the best features of
both to produce a super-fast, high level language, incorporating the facilities
offered by an interactive interpreter and the speed of execution close to that of
machine-code.  In order to achieve these fantastic speeds, Forth employs the use
of a data, or computation stack, on which to hold the data or the operations to be
performed, coupled with the use of Reverse Polish Notation (RPN).  This may be
quite a mouthful, but RPN is very easy to use and understand with only a little
practice - in fact, Hewlett Packard use RPN on many of their calculators.

All standard Forths use integer arithmetic for their operations and can handle up
to 32 bit precision if required - floating point mathematics routines could be
incorporated, but with a reduction in the execution speeds of a program.

White Lightning consists of a standard Fig-Forth model, but with over 100
extensions to the standard vocabulary of Forth words.  There are two important
extensions to White Lightning: the first is the ability to access almost ALL of
the Spectrum's own BASIC commands, just as you would when writing a BASIC program,
and with the addition of many of the high resolution graphics commands (CIRCLE,
DRAW, etc.).  Coupled with the incredible execution speeds of White Lightning, the
possibilities are limitless!  The second, and possibly most important, addition is
the IDEAL sub-language.

In addition to the basic vocabulary of White Lightning words, the user can very
easily ADD his own NEW WORDS using previously defined words, thus extending the
vocabulary and building up as complex a word as is necessary to do the task in
hand.

Fully structured programming methods are also employed as a fundamental feature of
Forth through the use of the structured control sequences included, such as:

IF.....ELSE.....ENDIF
DO.....UNTIL

The standard Spectrum editor can be used to create lines of White Lightning source
code for later compilation.  Do not allow lines to exceed 64 characters - any
characters after this are ignored.  The standard Forth line editor is included for
compatibility with existing text. The source code is stored in memory from $CC00
onwards, and can be LOADed or SAVEd to tape as and when required.  Once the source
code is complete, it may then be compiled into the White Lightning dictionary for
later execution.

Included in this documentation is a glossary of Fig-Forth terms (courtesy of the
FORTH INTEREST GROUP,PO BOX 1105, SAN CARLOS, CA 94070).

Spectra Forth was written by Stuart Smith, the author of the extremely successful
DRAGONFORTH, and is an enhancement of a program written by the Forth Interest
Group - to whom we offer our thanks.

At the time of writing, floppy discs are not readily available for the Spectrum
and instructions referring to discs should be interpreted as accessing RAM.