# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

--- addr    U

A user variable that contains the initial value for the stack pointer pronounced S-zero. See SP!
SCR    -- addr    U

A user variable containing the screen number most recently referenced by LIST. SIGN    n d -- d

stores an ASCII "-' sign just before a converted numeric output string in the text output buffer when n is negative. n is diswrded. but double number d is maintained. Must be used between <# and #>•
SMUDGE

Used during word definition to toggle the -smudge bit" in a definition's name field. This prevents an uncarQleted definition from being found during dictionary searches, until compiling is completed without error.
SPI
A computer dependent procedure to initialise the stack pointer from SO. SP®    -- addr

A ooiputor dependent procedure to return the address of the stack position to the top of the stack, as it was before SP@ was executed. (e.g. 1 2 SP€ g.•• would print 2 2 1).
SPACE

Transmit an ASCII blank to the output device.
SPACES    n -
Transmit n ASCII blanks to the output device.
STATE    -- addr    LOIU

A user variable containing the compilation state. A non-zero indicates compilation. The value itself my be implementation dependent.
SWAP    nl n2 -- n2 nl Exchange the top two values on the stack. 113
TASK
no-operation wqrd which can mark the boundary between applications. By ~~getting TIM and re-Omq>iling, an applicaton can be discarded in its entirety.
irxr    c -
n.<-ept the following test to PAD. c is the text delimiter.
1 HEN    P, CC), LO
An alias for FNDIP.
fIB    -- addr    U
A user variable containing the addresses of the terminal input buffer. TOGGLE    addr b -
Caiplenent the contents of addr by the bit pattern b. TRAVERSE    addrl n -- addr2

move across the rame field off a Fig-FORTH variable length name field. addrl is the address of either the length byte or the last letter. If n-1, the motion is toward low memory. The addr2 resulting is the address of the other end of the

narre.
TYPE    addr count ---    LO
:ansmit count characters from addr to the selected output device. U<    ul u2 -- f
Leave the boolean value of an unsigned less-than comparison. Leaves f=1 for ul > u2; otherwise leaves 0. Thi§ function should be used when comparing mmnry

.vidresses.
U„    ul u2 -_ ud

i-ve the unsigned double number product of two unsigned numbers. U.    u -_

Prints an unsigned 16 bit number converted according to BASE. A trailing blank fc.ilaws.
114