# TODO: Remove this comment once this file has been proofread

I
1. Press E(SCreen Functions), answer Y and press 2 (Mirror) - the character is reflected!

2. Now press S (Sprite Number) and enter 11.

3. Press G(GET) and then Y - again it flashes to wnfirm.

We now have two sprites, one facing left and one facing right. Let's set some new attributes.

1. Press X(INK) and enter 4 (green).

2. Press I to activate the Attribute Dump facility.

3. Move the sprite screen X cursor 1 place to the right and press I again - the top half is done!

4. Move the sprite screen Y cursor 1 place down and press I.

5. Finally, move the sprite screen cursor one place to the left and press I again - there you have it, a red character to the left and a green one to the right.

If you ~t to swap the colours the other way around - yes you're right this can be done:

L. Position the sprite screen cursors to X POS 1 Y POS 1.

2. We will have to set up the screen window for the exchange: Press L (Length Variable) and enter 4 - the window will flash.

3. Press E(Screen Functions), answer Y to the prompt and press 3 to MIRROR ATIRIBUCPS - watch the screen as you press 3, it happens very quickly: The red

Dalek becomes green and the green Oalek becomes red.

Right then - we'll move on a little. We'll oonsider some sprite operations. These are operations %bich take place in memory on the stored sprites. We'll begin by setting up a new sprite comprising two arcade characters and then go on to change their positions in the sprite in memory. Have a go at this:

1. Clear the sprite screen (SYMIIJL StiItT Q). Don't worry about your previous characters - you'll probably remember that they are still in memory as sprites 10 and ll.

2. Make sure that the sprite screen cursors are set to X POS 1 Y POS 1.

3. Set INK (X) to 6(yellw).

4. Set PAPER (C) to 0. 5. Set FLASH (V) to 0. 6. Set BRIGHT (B) to 1. 7. Set AIR (A) to 1.

8. Press Z (Arcade Character) and enter 149 (a Robot).
11
9. Move the sprite screen X cursor by +2.

10. Charge the INK ()(J to 4 (green).

ll. Press Z(Arcade Character) and enter 151 (another Robot).

OR, you should have two robots on the sprite screen - lets define then as a oombined sprite:

1. Move the cursors to X FY76 1 Y POS 1.

2. Press L(LSgU Variable) and set to 4. 3. Press H(Reight Variable) and set to 2. 4. Press S (Sprite Number) and enter 12.

5. Press G(GEf Function) and respond to the prompt with Y.

We have now set up a 4 by 2 sprite oontaining both characters. Now lets change them over in memory:

1. Press M(Sprite Memory Functions), respond to the prompt with Y, and press 2 (MIRROR) - nothing happens on the sprite screen - this is a m3mry function.

Let's prove that the sprite has been altered:

1. Move the sprite screen Y cursor by +3.

2. Press P(PUI') respond to the prompt with Y and press 1 - the sprite has been reflected -

We can return the attributes to their former Robots quite easily:

1. Press M (Sprite Memory Functions), respond to the prompt with Y, and press 3 (Mirror Attributes).

2. Move the Y cursor by +3 and press P(PUP), respond to the prompt with Y and press 1 - new the attributes have mirrored.

Let's move on a little further now. We now look at a second sprite transformation - rotation. Try the following:

1. Clear the sprite screen and set the X and Y cursors to X P06 1 Y POS 1. 2. Set INK (X) to 1 (blue).

3. Set PAPER (C) to 7(white). 4. Set FLASH (V) to 0. 5. Set BRIGHT (B) to 1. 6. Set ATIR (A) to 1.
12