**More Function Keys**

Let's move on.  BREAK the program - CAPS SHIFT/BREAK keys, type GOTO 3 and press
ENTER.  Execute a COLD (C) START and answer N to BUFFER SIZE CHANGE.  Nothing of
what you have previously done is in memory.  (We could have cleared all your
sprites by defining them (S key) and pressing W (WIPE SPRITE), but depending on
how many you defined whilst experimenting, it could have been a lengthy process!)

Now have a go at this:

1.  Clear the sprite screen (SYMBOL SHIFT Q)

2.  Press X to activate the INK variable and then set it to 2.

3.  Press C to activate the PAPER variable and then set it to 7.

4.  Press B to activate the BRIGHT switch and then press 1 to switch it ON.

5.  Press V to activate the FLASH variable and then press 0 to switch it OFF.

6.  Press A to activate the ATTRIBUTE switch and then press 1 to switch it ON.

You will have noticed, that both PAPER and FLASH were already set to 7 and 0
respectively from the COLD start; we only run through them all for completeness
and to get used to using them.


What you have done, is to set the attributes for the character we are about to
define, so lets do that:

1.  Press Z to call up the arcade characters, answer Y to the prompt, and enter
150 followed by ENTER - there you have it - a red Dalek.

Now in order to define this character as a sprite, we reed to GET it into memory.

1.  Press S to set up a sprite and type 10, followed by ENTER.

Now we'll need to set up the screen window:

1.  Press L to activate the sprite length variable and then press 2 followed by
ENTER.  You will see the window flash red across the top half of the character.

2.  Press H to activate the SPRITE HEIGHT variable and then press 2 followed by
ENTER.  Now you will see the new window flash.


Now convert this character into a sprite by GETting it into memory:

1.  Press G to activate the GET function and answer Y to the prompt.  Again the
screen window will flash, confirming that the character has been GOT into memory.

Move the sprite screen X cursor +2 (SYMBOL SHIFT 8 twice).  Activate the PUT
function (P), respond with a Y to the prompt and press 1 to PUT your new sprite to
the screen.


Now we're going to mirror this second character and GET it into memory as another
sprite but with different attributes: