    The relocate command uses the value held in MLEN as the relocation
    length, a negative value, as above, relocates downward and a positive
    value upward.

4.  Before loading the second block of sprites, the values of the new
    SPST and SPND should be calculated and noted.  Type:

    SPST @ U. SPND @ 65280 60000 - + DUP SPND ! U. <CR>

    Take a note of these two values.  If the previous steps have been
    carried out correctly the second number (the new SPND) should be the
    same value as the old SPND before relocation.

5.  Type: PROG <CR> to exit back to BASIC then type LOAD "" CODE.  The
    array of pointers will be ignored but the sprites will be loaded.
    This assumes that this second block of sprites was also saved using
    the sprite development software.

6.  Type PRINT USR 24836 to re-enter Forth and your sprites should be
    merged.  Note that if a sprite number used in the second block has
    also been used in the first block, that only the first occurrence
    will be found.  If the first occurrence is destroyed using WIPE or
    DSPRITE, then the second occurrence will be found.


**Extending the Forth Itself**

One of the beauties of the Forth language is that it is extendable, so if you've
added a few of your own commands which you would like to become a permanent
feature of your customised version, you will need to make a copy.  For this
reason, no attempt has been made to protect the software; but we do appeal to
users not to take advantage of this facility to pirate the program.  Piracy pushes
up the price of software to genuine users, so if you've bought a genuine copy, do
yourself a favour and keep the price of your future software affordable.  Copying
the manual, however, will result in immediate court action and a reward will be
paid to anyone offering information leading to the successful prosecution of
offenders.

To save the Forth use the following procedure:

1.  Type: WARM->COLD <CR> to embed the commands.

2.  Type: HERE 24832 - 1+ U. <CR> to print the length to be Saved.

3.  Type: PROG <CR> to enter BASIC.

4.  Save using SAVE "FORTH" CODE 24832, length.

5.  Re-enter using PRINT USR 24836.

To use the amended version, LOAD White Lightning as normal, exit using PROG, LOAD
the new Forth over the old Forth and execute a Cold start using 24832.

Oasis make no undertakings to support customised versions, and make no guarantee
as to the success of the operation.